# Application of Machine Learning to Time Series Forecasting 
Machine learning, with the continuous popularity of big data and the widespread availability of technology, has become part of our everyday modern life - voice recognition features on smart devices such as Alexa and Siri, recommended items while shopping on Amazon.com, facial recognition features on Google photos and so on. It combines the fields of computer science and statistics with a focus on teaching a machine how to perform tasks through algorithms that can learn from experience without relying on rule-based programming. Hence, it has a strong computing power to execute complex algorithms and uncover insights within various kinds of data. While there exists literature that has largely documented the importance of machine learning in economics (e.g Athey (2018);Bajari et al. (2015)), the application of such data science techniques in economics research and applications is still relatively new. Besides, machine learning has the appeal of solving prediction problems by discovering a complex structure within data that was not specified in advance Sendhill and Speiss (2017). Nonetheless, little is known about the performance of machine algorithms in forecasting time series.

This project implements and evaluates popular supervised machine learning models to predict the listing prices of houses in the United States. The goal is to provide a brief overview of each model and to determine the challenges associated with the implementation of the respective model in obtaining an accurate forecast of the proposed time series data. House prices are a significant indicator of the strength of the housing market and have been used to forecast real-time economic conditions Kishor (2018). Supervised learning involves fitting the target variable (Y) using the given input features (X). Such learning is said to be successful if it can make predictions within an acceptable level of accuracy.

I present a traditional econometric model and six popular machine learning models to forecast the median listing prices of homes. The first is an OLS linear regression model. The OLS model is one of the most common econometric methods used for inference and prediction. Hence, I use the OLS model as a baseline model for comparing the performances of the typical machine learning models. The second model is the K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN) which predicts new data points based on k similar records from a training data set. Support Vector Regression (SVR) is the third model used because it is well known for its ability to accurately forecast time series data when the underlying system processes are typically nonlinear, non-stationary, and not defined a priori Sapankevych and Sankar (2009). It is based on the principle of structural risk minimization. The results indicate that the models can be used to accurately predict time series data. The SVR, ridge and lasso regressions turn out to be significantly better predictors than the OLS. The other machine learning models, on the other hand, did not perform as well as the OLS but can be ensembled to potentially generate better predictions than the OLS model.
